README.md, before:

# Face-Recognition Training Framework

[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/yakhyo/face-recognition/total)](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/releases)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/yakhyo/face-recognition)](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/stargazers)
[![GitHub Repository](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Repository-blue?logo=github)](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/yakhyo/face-recognition)](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/blob/main/LICENSE)

---

## 🔥 Updates

- `2025/01/03`: 🔥 We released the **Face-Recognition** training framework and pretrained model weights.

---

## 📊 Results

| Dataset | Backbone          | LFW (%) | CALFW (%) | CPLFW (%) | AgeDB_30 (%) | Num Params |
| ------- | ----------------- | ------- | --------- | --------- | ------------ | ---------- |
| MS1MV2  | Sphere20          | 99.67   | 95.61     | 88.75     | 96.58        | 24.5M      |
| MS1MV2  | Sphere36          | 99.72   | 95.64     | 89.92     | 96.83        | 34.6M      |
| MS1MV2  | MobileNetV1_0.25  | 98.76   | 92.02     | 82.37     | 90.02        | 0.36M      |
| MS1MV2  | MobileNetV2       | 99.55   | 94.87     | 86.89     | 95.16        | 2.29M      |
| MS1MV2  | MobileNetV3_Small | 99.30   | 93.77     | 85.29     | 92.79        | 1.25M      |
| MS1MV2  | MobileNetV3_Large | 99.53   | 94.56     | 86.79     | 95.13        | 3.52M      |

---

## 🚀 Features to Add

- [ ] ONNX Export: Enable model export to ONNX format for cross-platform compatibility.
- [ ] ONNX Inference: Implement inference using ONNX runtime for efficient deployment.
- [ ] Combine Face-Detection and Face-Recognition: Create a pipeline integrating both detection and recognition seamlessly.

## ✨ Features

| Date       | Feature Description                                                                                                                                      |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 2024-12-15 | 🔄 **Training Pipeline**: Introduced a simple and effective pipeline for face-recognition training with support for `DDP` and single GPU configurations. |
| 2024-12-15 | 📚 **Pretrained Models**: Added support for `MobileNetV1/V2/V3`, `Sphere20`, and `Sphere36` models for versatile use-cases and performance tiers.        |
| 2024-12-15 | 📂 **Dataset Downloads**: Easy access to aligned and cropped training and validation datasets via Kaggle links.                                          |
| 2024-12-15 | 🔧 **Modular Codebase**: Fully modular and reproducible codebase for easier customization and extension.                                                 |
| 2024-12-15 | 🌐 **Dataset Compatibility**: Supports `CASIA-WebFace`, `VGGFace2`, and `MS1MV2` datasets, pre-aligned and cropped for streamlined training.             |

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 💻 Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition.git
cd face-recognition
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 🏋️‍♂️ Training

Codebase supports **DDP**, to run using **DDP** please use below example command:

```bash
torchrun --nproc_per_node=2 main.py --root data/train/ms1m_112x112 --database MS1M --network mobilenetv1 --classifier MCP
```

If you have a single GPU then use the below example command:

```bash
python main.py --root data/train/ms1m_112x112 --database MS1M --network mobilenetv1 --classifier MCP
```

### 🧪 Evaluate

To evaluate, please modify model, weights, and validation data filenames in `evaluate.py`

```bash
python evaluate.py
```

---

## 📂 Dataset

You can download aligned and cropped (112x112) training and validation datasets from Kaggle.

### 📦 Training Data

- [CASIA-WebFace 112x112](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/yakhyo/webface-112x112) from `opensphere`
  - Identities: 10.6k
  - #Images: 491k
- [VGGFace2 112x112](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/yakhyo/vggface2-112x112) from `opensphere`
  - Identities: 8.6k
  - #Images: 3.1M
- [MS1MV2 112x112](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/yakhyo/ms1m-arcface-dataset) from `insightface`
  - Identities: 85.7k
  - #Images: 5.8M

### 🔍 Validation Data

Validation data contains AgeDB_30, CALFW, CPLFW, and LFW datasets.

- [AgeDB_30, CALFW, CPLFW, LFW 112x112](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/yakhyo/agedb-30-calfw-cplfw-lfw-aligned-112x112)

---

### 🗂️ Folder Structure

```
data/
|-- train/
|   |-- ms1m_112x112/
|   |-- vggface2_112x112/
|   |-- webface_112x112/
|-- val/
|   |-- agedb_30_112x112/
|   |-- calfw_112x112/
|   |-- cplfw_112x112/
|   |-- lfw_112x112/
|   |-- agedb_30_ann.txt
|   |-- calfw_ann.txt
|   |-- cplfw_ann.txt
|   |-- lfw_ann.txt
```

---

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

docs: Add model weights and update readme

README.md, after:

# Face-Recognition Training Framework

[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/yakhyo/face-recognition/total)](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/releases)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/yakhyo/face-recognition)](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/stargazers)
[![GitHub Repository](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Repository-blue?logo=github)](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/yakhyo/face-recognition)](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/blob/main/LICENSE)

---

## 🔥 Updates

- `2025/01/03`: 🔥 We released the **Face-Recognition** training framework and pretrained model weights.

---

## 📊 Results

| Dataset | Backbone          | LFW (%) | CALFW (%) | CPLFW (%) | AgeDB_30 (%) | Num Params |
| ------- | ----------------- | ------- | --------- | --------- | ------------ | ---------- |
| MS1MV2  | Sphere20          | 99.67   | 95.61     | 88.75     | 96.58        | 24.5M      |
| MS1MV2  | Sphere36          | 99.72   | 95.64     | 89.92     | 96.83        | 34.6M      |
| MS1MV2  | MobileNetV1_0.25  | 98.76   | 92.02     | 82.37     | 90.02        | 0.36M      |
| MS1MV2  | MobileNetV2       | 99.55   | 94.87     | 86.89     | 95.16        | 2.29M      |
| MS1MV2  | MobileNetV3_Small | 99.30   | 93.77     | 85.29     | 92.79        | 1.25M      |
| MS1MV2  | MobileNetV3_Large | 99.53   | 94.56     | 86.79     | 95.13        | 3.52M      |

---

## 🚀 Features to Add

- [ ] ONNX Export: Enable model export to ONNX format for cross-platform compatibility.
- [ ] ONNX Inference: Implement inference using ONNX runtime for efficient deployment.
- [ ] Combine Face-Detection and Face-Recognition: Create a pipeline integrating both detection and recognition seamlessly.

## ✨ Features

| Date       | Feature Description                                                                                                                                      |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 2024-12-15 | 🔄 **Training Pipeline**: Introduced a simple and effective pipeline for face-recognition training with support for `DDP` and single GPU configurations. |
| 2024-12-15 | 📚 **Pretrained Models**: Added support for `MobileNetV1/V2/V3`, `Sphere20`, and `Sphere36` models for versatile use-cases and performance tiers.        |
| 2024-12-15 | 📂 **Dataset Downloads**: Easy access to aligned and cropped training and validation datasets via Kaggle links.                                          |
| 2024-12-15 | 🔧 **Modular Codebase**: Fully modular and reproducible codebase for easier customization and extension.                                                 |
| 2024-12-15 | 🌐 **Dataset Compatibility**: Supports `CASIA-WebFace`, `VGGFace2`, and `MS1MV2` datasets, pre-aligned and cropped for streamlined training.             |

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 💻 Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition.git
cd face-recognition
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 🏋️‍♂️ Training

Codebase supports **DDP**, to run using **DDP** please use below example command:

```bash
torchrun --nproc_per_node=2 main.py --root data/train/ms1m_112x112 --database MS1M --network mobilenetv1 --classifier MCP
```

If you have a single GPU then use the below example command:

```bash
python main.py --root data/train/ms1m_112x112 --database MS1M --network mobilenetv1 --classifier MCP
```

### 🧪 Evaluate

To evaluate, please modify model, weights, and validation data filenames in `evaluate.py`

```bash
python evaluate.py
```

## 📥 Pretrained Model Weights (v0.0.1)

The following pretrained model weights are available for download under the release [v0.0.1](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/releases/tag/v0.0.1):

| Model             | Download Link                                                                                             |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| MobileNetV1_0.25  | [Download](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/releases/download/v0.0.1/mobilenetv1_mcp.pth)       |
| MobileNetV2       | [Download](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/releases/download/v0.0.1/mobilenetv2_mcp.pth)       |
| MobileNetV3_Small | [Download](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/releases/download/v0.0.1/mobilenetv3_large_mcp.pth) |
| MobileNetV3_Large | [Download](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/releases/download/v0.0.1/mobilenetv3_small_mcp.pth) |
| Sphere20          | [Download](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/releases/download/v0.0.1/sphere20_mcp.pth)          |
| Sphere36          | [Download](https://github.com/yakhyo/face-recognition/releases/download/v0.0.1/sphere36_mcp.pth)          |

### 🔧 Usage

1. Download the model weights from the links above.
2. Place the weights in the desired directory (e.g., `weights/`).
3. Update your training or inference script to load the appropriate model weights.

---

## 📂 Dataset

You can download aligned and cropped (112x112) training and validation datasets from Kaggle.

### 📦 Training Data

- [CASIA-WebFace 112x112](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/yakhyo/webface-112x112) from `opensphere`
  - Identities: 10.6k
  - #Images: 491k
- [VGGFace2 112x112](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/yakhyo/vggface2-112x112) from `opensphere`
  - Identities: 8.6k
  - #Images: 3.1M
- [MS1MV2 112x112](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/yakhyo/ms1m-arcface-dataset) from `insightface`
  - Identities: 85.7k
  - #Images: 5.8M

### 🔍 Validation Data

Validation data contains AgeDB_30, CALFW, CPLFW, and LFW datasets.

- [AgeDB_30, CALFW, CPLFW, LFW 112x112](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/yakhyo/agedb-30-calfw-cplfw-lfw-aligned-112x112)

---

### 🗂️ Folder Structure

```
data/
|-- train/
|   |-- ms1m_112x112/
|   |-- vggface2_112x112/
|   |-- webface_112x112/
|-- val/
|   |-- agedb_30_112x112/
|   |-- calfw_112x112/
|   |-- cplfw_112x112/
|   |-- lfw_112x112/
|   |-- agedb_30_ann.txt
|   |-- calfw_ann.txt
|   |-- cplfw_ann.txt
|   |-- lfw_ann.txt
```

---

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
